# Dotfiles

This is a repository to store my personal dotfiles. I would recommend creating and setting up your own dotfiles.

NOTE: I use GNU stow to apply all the dotfiles in the repo to my home directory. There is a makefile to make it easier to apply.

## Features

### [Ghostty](https://ghostty.org/)

I use Ghostty as my terminal the dotfiles located in this repo enable the following features with this terminal.
- Specific rose-pine theme for light and dark mode
- Font setup
- Terminal background
- Dock icon customization
- Window decorations

### [Aerospace](https://github.com/nikitabobko/AeroSpace)

I use Aerospace as my tiling window manager. This is because I am on macOS and find it to be the best one.<br/>
I previously used SKHD and Yabai while it does use native macOS Desktops it uses non public APIs to do so. macOS updates would break Yabai so I switched to Aerospace
which just hides and shows windows and the concept of desktops is all virtual. Does mean I lose some builtin macOS functionality like realizing all windows. I am okay
with the compromise.

### [Neovim](https://neovim.io/)

I use neovim as my main editor. I have tried a bunch of different editors in the past 2 decades this is my favorite. My setup is very customized to my specific needs,
previously I used to use LunarVim but found I real increase performance and personalization with custom neovim setup.

### Powerline10k

[Powerline10k](https://github.com/romkatv/powerlevel10k) is what makes the terminal prompt look beautiful. 
The important thing here is too make sure you install Nerd Font as well.
My configuration mainly just has the prompt styled how I like it. I just modified the original file that was generated by powerline which is why it is so large.

### zsh-autosuggestions

[This](https://github.com/zsh-users/zsh-autosuggestions) gives terminal command suggestions based on previously entered commands.

### zsh-completions

[This](https://github.com/zsh-users/zsh-completions) provides completion suggestions below the prompt, in addition to a history menu.

### zsh-syntax-highlighting

[This](https://github.com/zsh-users/zsh-syntax-highlighting) is used to add syntax highlighting for terminal commands.

## Keymaps (Outdated)

I needed the below so I could visually see all my keymaps, thinking of making a web app for this.

LSP
gd  -> [G]oto [d]efinition
gD  -> [G]oto [D]eclaration
gi  -> [G]oto [I]mplementation
gtd -> [G]oto [T]ype [D]efinition
go  -> [G]et [O]verload Documentation
fr  -> [F]ind [R]eferences
K   -> [K]eyword Documentation

<leader>lds  -> [D]ocument [S]ymbols
<leader>lws  -> [W]orkspace [S]ymbols
<leader>lrs  -> [R]e[n]ame [S]ymbol
<leader>lih  -> [I]nlay [H]ints Toggle
<leader>lca  -> [C]ode [A]ction

<leader>lf -> [F]ormat
<leader>lp -> [P]rev Diagnostic
<leader>ln -> [N]ext Diagnostic

[d]iagnostic
<leader>de -> Show [E]rror for Line
<leader>dq -> Show [Q]uickfix List

[D]ebug
<leader>Dt -> [T]oggle Breakpoint
<leader>Db -> [S]tep Back
<leader>Dc -> [c]ontinue
<leader>DC -> Run to [C]ursor
<leader>Dd -> [D]isconnect
<leader>Dg -> [G]et Session
<leader>Di -> Step [I]nto
<leader>Du -> Step O[u]t
<leader>Do -> Step [O]ver
<leader>Dp -> [P]ause
<leader>Dr -> Toggle [R]epl
<leader>Ds -> [S]tart
<leader>Dq -> [Q]uit
<leader>DU -> Toggle [U]I

Comments
<leader>// -> Toggle Comment
<leader>/d -> Comment Documentation

[S]earch
<leader>sf  -> [F]iles
<leader>sgf -> [G]it [F]iles
<leader>s/  -> [G]rep
<leader>sd  -> [D]iagnostics
<leader>sw  -> Current [W]ord
<leader>sr  -> [R]esume

[G]it
<leader>gb  -> [B]lame Line
<leader>gtb -> [T]oggle [B]lame Line
<leader>gp  -> [P]review Hunk
<leader>ghn -> [H]unk [N]ext
<leader>ghp -> [H]unk [P]rev 
<leader>gd  -> [d]iff against Index
<leader>gD  -> [D]iff against Last Commit

Buffers / Files
<leader><leader> -> Search Buffers
<leader>w        -> [W]rite
<leader>q        -> [Q]uit
<leader>x        -> Wrie & Quit
